We're going to talk about what's old
in directory services today and what's
new in directory services because
I've been told that some percentage
of you have never been to a WWDC,
so you don't know about the brilliance
and mastery that is directory services.
So we'll go over some history and
we'll bring you up to speed on
what our plans are for Leopard.
So the agenda is really simple.
What is Open Directory or
directory services as we
interchangeably refer to it as?
How is it used by the system?
We'll be talking about what you can do
with Tiger today because spring 2007 is,
I guess, the announced date from
yesterday's keynote.
So that means that we've got at least
six months of the existing Tiger product
for you to use and there's a lot of
features in directory services that I've
been surprised people don't know about.
So we'll bring you up to speed on that.
And then we'll be talking about
why you're all really here
and why you paid your money,
but we'll be talking about
what we're doing with
directory services for Leopard.
And then hopefully if there's
some time left at the end,
we will have a short Q&A or a long Q&A.
depending on how quickly
I talk through my slides.
So what is Open Directory?
Open Directory,
I get this question a lot.
Open Directory is a technology name,
kind of like Quick Times and
Umbrella technology.
It's no one thing.
It's a lot of different things.
Open Directory is the way
we refer to both our client
and our server technologies.
And what we try to do with
Open Directory is integrate and promote
industry standard directory technologies
or authentication technologies
like our adoption of Kerberoos.
Open Directory is built into Mac OS X,
the Mac OS X server.
And it's open source as part of Darwin.
So there's no magic in Open Directory.
You can go download the LDAP plug-in,
the BSD local plug-in,
the directory services daemon.
It's all posted on the Darwin website.
It always has been.
We actually have some customers
that have modified the LDAP v3
plug-in for some minor tweaks.
It's always helpful to me to
talk a little bit about history.
So in Jaguar, the things in white
were not new to Jaguar.
The things in yellow were new.
So in Jaguar,
we introduced the LDAP v3 plug-in.
We introduced the NIS and
the flat file plug-in.
We introduced AppleTalk, SLP, Bonjour,
and SMB.
And we had NetInfo, LookUpD,
and LDAP v2 from Puma.
But that's so long ago now
that I didn't want to fill the
slide up with Puma or Cheetah.
For Panther, we continued adding
things to Open Directory,
the major addition being the
first release that we supported
the Active Directory plug-in.
We followed on with Tiger with
trusted LDAP v3 binding,
which allows you to trust
that the directory is open.
So you can see that the directory
server you're actually talking to is
the one you configured to talk to.
And we added MemberD,
which is a key new system
daemon in Tiger that does nested
group resolution and was in
support of the file system ACLs,
which were introduced in Tiger.
And then what we're here to
talk about today is Leopard.
And I'm not going to give away the
entire presentation on the third slide,
so I left that blank for this
thing to keep you guys in the room.
So we have the requisite layer diagram.
So the Active Directory services
is this middle layer.
Below Directory services
are a series of plug-ins.
You can write these plug-ins yourself.
So far, not a lot of people have.
They are difficult to write because
they're part of the trusted system.
But we have plug-ins for
accessing a local database.
We have a plug-in for accessing LDAP.
We have a plug-in for
accessing the /etc files.
And we have Active Directory and NIST,
all as plug-ins underneath
Directory services.
And the rest of the operating
system sits on top of
Directory services to some degree.
Login window would be in the red box.
Workgroup manager would
be in the red box.
Server manager, for those of you familiar
with Server Admin,
would be in the red box.
Anything that looks up a user or a group.
In some cases, in a twist,
the kernel actually sits on top
of Directory services because when
it needs to do a group resolution
to check a file access privilege,
and if it doesn't have the
group in memory already,
it has to call
Directory services to fetch it.
So a lot of the operating system
sits on top of Directory services.
So directory service is the green
layers in API for read/write
access to the configuration.
And this was one of the major
features is it is read/write.
The most common,
but by no means the complete
list of things that you access
with directory access is users,
groups, and mount records.
We also do the password
verification for the system.
So anytime you guys type a password in
the login window or log on over SSH,
those processes are calling directory
services to verify the password.
Lib system APIs,
for those of you who are familiar with
Unix programming or POSIX programming,
get PWNAM, get GRNAM,
all of those calls are handled by a
process in the system called LookUpD,
which is tied into directory services.
And as of Tiger, as I said,
we introduced MemberD,
which is the group resolution engine
for the entire operating system.
The major support MemberD brought to
the equation was nested group support
and support for more than 16 groups,
which was no small trick
in the Tiger timeframe.
So what is directory services in 10.4?
It includes an LDAPv3 read/write plugin,
Active Directory, a NetInfo plugin,
NIS/Etsy, service discovery plugins,
the finder uses directory services to do
all the network browsing under /network.
It's a documented access
API and plugin API.
The SDKs are posted on
the developer website.
There's a header installed
in system library frameworks.
And there's command line tools like DSCL,
which stands for
Directory Service Command Line,
DSEdit Group, DSImport, Password Policy,
PassWD.
These are all directory services.
So we're going to go
ahead and get started.
So let's get started.
[Transcript missing]
This is the closest of a
simplified architectural diagram.
You have the legacy command line
products or Unix tools running,
and they typically go
through the lib system APIs.
Those dispatch to LookupD.
LookupD has its own cache,
and it will call out to directory
services if it can't find the data,
and then directory services
will consult the plugins.
Some of the applications call
directory services directly.
In that case, they're still consulting
the same data source,
so this is how we keep the two worlds
seeing the same set of users and groups.
If they go through the legacy Unix APIs,
they hit LookupD,
which calls directory services.
If they go through the new APIs,
they hit directory services,
which consults the same databases.
So that's the client side.
There's also a server side
to the directory services,
which is if you don't have a
directory system already deployed,
how do you deploy one?
Well, Mac OS X4 includes a
full directory server.
It includes Kerbero,
it includes a password server.
It's a full authentication
replicated scalable directory system.
It's based on LDAPv3.
I believe the release that we're
based on is OpenLDAP 2.2.19.
This directory server supports 10.2,
10.3, and 10.4.
And we have an enhanced password server.
The password server is one of
the most confusing parts of this.
People want to know why we
have it if we have Kerbero.
Well, Kerbero doesn't support
legacy authentication
methods like NTLM or NTLMv2.
So the password server bridges the gap
for the things that Kerbero doesn't do,
the password server does do.
And we keep those two
password databases in sync.
The password server itself on
the wire is based on Sassl.
If you actually look at a
password server exchange,
it looks like NTLMv2.
It's based on any other Sassl exchange.
And the password server also
does all the policy enforcement.
So if you want an account to expire
on June 30th or anything like that,
the password server enforces
all of those sorts of features.
We have a fully integrated Kerbero
server with only minor modifications
for the password server synchronization.
Other than that, it's a vanilla Kerbero
server that we get from MIT.
And we support Windows clients via
PDC and BDC integration using Samba.
Whenever Samba gets a PDC request,
it forwards it to Open Directory.
So you create a user
record in Open Directory.
If you have a PDC configured,
that user record is also
visible on a Windows client.
So your users can log on to a
Windows machine with a name and password,
or they can log on to a Mac with
the same name and password.
They change it on one platform,
it automatically gets changed
on the other platform.
Keeps the two worlds in sync.
And we support secure replication
for LDAP and authentication data.
So we think we have a fairly
scalable directory server.
It's very complete and feature set.
And so far, it has met many,
many of our customers' needs.
And I hear about new ones every day.
One of the innovations we added to
Tiger was a directory-based schema.
For those of you who
have administered LDAP,
if you have multiple replicas,
the way to add schema to the
LDAP server is to edit the config file.
Well,
that works really well on one server.
But what if you have 30 servers?
Well,
you have to go visit each 30 server's
config files and update them manually.
Wouldn't it be cool if you could
just put the schema in the directory
and let the replication replicate
the schema out to the replicas?
Well, that's what we did in Tiger.
And that changed open LDAP is
open source and has been
posted on the Darwin website.
And we support up to 200,000
records in the directory system.
I know some of you have
more than 200,000 records,
but this meets a large,
large majority of our
customer requirements.
There are very few people that
need more than 200,000 user
records in a directory system.
So in summary,
Mac OS X comes with Open Directory and
Tiger and has always come with
Open Directory since 10.0.
The client and the server are fairly
complete and offer a very compelling
solution for deploying managed networks,
maintaining your client workstations,
and having central command and authority.
We're based on industry standards.
We're using LDAP.
We're using Kerbero.
We're using Sassl for our authentication.
There's no secrets here.
The vast majority of
Open Directory is open source,
and we fit in with existing
directory deployments.
So if you already have a
working directory system,
there's a high probability.
There's a high probability that you'll
be able to configure Mac OS X to work
with that existing directory system.
Directory services works below most
of the application and is transparent
to the vast majority of the system.
And Tiger saw a major upgrade
with our enhanced group support.
So that brings you up to date
on where we are with directory
services today in the Tiger that
you have running on your desktops.
How many people have installed
Leopard on their notebooks
and are running it right now?
Oh, wow, that's a lot.
So you're running directory
service on Leopard.
For those of you that haven't,
you're using the Tiger directory system.
So now we're going to talk about Leopard.
So what are we doing with
directory services for Leopard?
Well, we're doing a lot.
We're going to have a major
architectural overhaul that
I'm going to talk about later.
We're making changes to the
local configuration database.
We'll be talking about improvements
in the Active Directory plugin.
And we'll be talking about
server enhancements that we
have planned for the server.
This is the standard architectural
diagram that I've been giving for
about the past six or seven years.
This is a simplified view.
I believe it's highly accurate.
However, like any diagram or any graphic,
it's simpler than it needs to be.
And for purposes of the
conversation we're about to have,
I'm going to have to pull back
the covers a little bit and show
you a little bit more about what's
going on underneath the covers.
So we're going to swap out
that architectural diagram for
that architectural diagram.
And the two changes are the
lib system APIs on the left
and the DS APIs on the right.
Below that is a cooperation among
three different daemons in the system.
If you run tiger and you run top,
you'll see member D directory services
and lookup D running in the process list.
Those three daemons cooperate with each
other to provide the system with all of
the directory information it requires.
And then beneath all of that are
the plugins that provide access
to the different data sources.
So lookup D handles lib system.
It caches results so that if an
application is launched and calls get
PWNAM over and over and over again,
it's not actually doing I/O on
the network or on the disk.
It's reading it out of lookup D's cache.
Does the DNS resolution for the system.
If you resolve a host
name through Safari,
that call ultimately hits lookup D and
lookup D does the host name resolution.
So lookup D is the one that's going
to be the host name for the system.
And it accesses the local database.
It uses directory service
for network access.
So if lookup D can't find the
user record in the local database,
it fails over to directory
services and says,
"Hey, directory services,
can you find this user record?" And if
you have an LDAP server configured
and the user record actually exists,
directory services will hand the result
to lookup D and magic will happen.
Member D handles group resolution.
So when the kernel encounters
a JPEG on disk and the user
record is not in the directory,
it's going to be a group resolution.
So if the user record doesn't
match the permission and there's
groups on the permission list,
the kernel will call member D and say,
"Is this user a member of that
group?" Member D is responsible
for caching the answer and if it
doesn't have the answer in cache,
it's responsible for getting
an answer for the kernel.
So that's a critical part of the system
and it does groups result caching
because the kernel asks about the
same group memberships quite a bit.
I think on boot it asks about,
"Are you a member of wheel?"
like over 2,000 times.
So caching is very important.
And then directory services.
So the directory services provides
access to the network directories,
NIS.
It provides access to LDAP and provides
access to Active Directory or any other
plugin that you've written or installed.
There's always been some
redundancy in these daemons.
Lookupd does some work that
then if it can't handle it,
Directory Services does the same
work over because it doesn't know
if it's being called by Lookupd
or being called by login window.
There's been some redundancy
in this architecture.
Engineers don't like redundancy.
We're going to clean it up.
So our goals for Leopard are to
actually have this architecture
diagram be enormously accurate.
There's only one Damon in the system.
So the lib system APIs on
Leopard that you're running,
dispatched today directly
to directory services.
If you run the process list,
you will note lookupd is not
running in the tiger seed or the
leopard seed that we gave you.
The DS API is still dispatched to
directory services and for Leopard GM,
MemberD will not be running.
MemberD is still running.
It was too much risk to
put into the WWDC build,
but we've got it prototyped.
It's working.
So directory services is
consolidating all of the
directory daemons into one daemon.
So a single directory services
daemon to handle lib system,
a single directory services
daemon that does caching,
local data access,
and DNS host resolution is all
done out of directory services now.
Less IPC dispatch.
Those lines that I gave you on
the architecture diagram earlier,
every time you saw a
gray arrow going one,
that's a Mach IPC.
And while Mach IPC is
enormously high performance,
anyone who programs in the audience
knows the fewer procedure calls
or system calls you can make,
the better.
This is fewer system calls,
and it will be a saved memory
footprint of three fewer daemons.
So lookupd and memberd will not be
running in the GM version of Leopard.
Leopard already, with the build you have,
does not have lookupd running.
So, where are we at?
The WWDC build of Leopard
has no LookupD running.
Go ahead, check.
You can run top or PS.
All lib system API calls now
dispatch to directory services.
And this is kind of fun.
I'm walking down the hall,
and the question I get the most is, hey,
Dave, what are all of those lib system
calls that LookupD handles?
That's exactly what
everyone's most interested in.
Aqua, high DPI, calendaring.
No one cares about that.
They want to know what lib system
calls that LookupD used to handle.
Well, I compiled a list with
the help of my engineers,
and there they are.
So, these calls have always,
even prior to Cheetah 10.0,
these calls were always
handled by LookupD.
So, all we did was take the
implementation that already existed
and redirected all these calls to
talk directly to directory services.
So, that's been done.
So, if you call any of these
calls in your code,
directly or indirectly,
you're now using directory
services goodness.
And when Leopard ships,
memberd will be subsumed by
directory services as well.
And the memberd APIs are only one
or two to ask about membership,
and they're in membership.h,
which is in lib system.
And that leaves one other daemon running.
For those of you who are very,
very savvy about Mac OS X,
you know that Mac OS X,
even when not bound to
a network directory,
still has a local directory server
running for your local database.
That local directory is
lovingly referred to as NetInfo,
and there's a daemon running
on this system called NetInfoD,
which brokers access to
the local NetInfo database.
We're getting rid of NetInfo.
So even on a local Tiger system
with no network access,
there's an extra daemon running.
So NetInfo has been the
historical local database,
and it works like this.
Local data, talk to NetInfo.
So the local data plug-in and
directory services talk to NetInfoD,
and NetInfoD access to file on disk at
var db netinfo slash nidb dot local.
For those of you who want to do a
clean install of your operating system,
please delete this file right now,
and you can wipe the hard drive
because that deletes your local
admin user and everything else.
I'm just kidding.
Don't do that.
NetInfoD also handled remote access.
So this is how directory services
got--for those of you who know
a little bit about NetInfo,
NetInfo was both a local
database and a remote database.
It could be run across the network.
Well, the daemon that accessed the
remote database was also NetInfoD.
So NetInfoD was responsible for
both local data access and it's
responsible for network data access.
Now, we have not supported deploying a
NetInfo server since--is 10.2 Jaguar?
Yeah, okay.
Since Jaguar.
So we haven't encouraged people
to deploy more NetInfo servers,
but we haven't yet gotten--but
we hadn't yet gotten rid of
the local NetInfo server.
NetInfo could hold about 10,000 entries.
It could store string
data but not binary data.
It had write access controls
but no read access controls.
It was a pretty good directory system,
but--but we didn't like the extra
IPC dispatch even for local data access.
So local access was handled by
a separate RPC-based daemon.
RPC has some issues.
If you think about it,
NetInfo is actually based on RPC for
those of you who've looked at the source.
And it's based on SunRPC which
requires the networking stack.
And there's some very interesting
deadlock conditions in boot time and when
you're waking from sleep and all that
sort of stuff that the networking stack's
not even ready to handle loopback.
So having an extra IPC dispatch led to
some very hairy programming problems
that during very narrow windows of time,
NetInfoD may not have been
responsive to local calls even
for accessing the local database.
And it's another moving part.
And again,
for the engineers in the audience,
more moving parts is more risk,
more complexity.
So we're removing this moving part
from the system for local access.
So we're, as of Leopard,
retiring NetInfo.
This is its jersey.
So if any of you have NetInfo
deployed at your site,
Now would be a really good time
to upgrade to Open Directory.
I want to emphasize this.
We will not even legacy support this.
We're not saying that this
is going away and we're not
doing any more enhancements.
We are yanking this from the system.
There will be no Net Info
support in Leopard at all.
So the local data store replacement,
this is a question I get a lot.
So now the local database for store
will be in var db dslocal nodes default,
and underneath there,
there will be one folder per record type.
Under default, you'll see users, groups,
and mounts,
and underneath each one of those,
you'll see one file per record.
The file format will be a plist.
So if you want to edit this plist
while you're in single user mode,
go ahead.
It's just going to be a plist,
no tools required.
So it's being replaced with
a local implementation.
Records are plists.
It can store string and binary
data in the local records.
This is being used, by the way,
by login window and system accounts
prefs to put the user picture into
the user record in the system and some
other nifty little integration points.
This is one less daemon
running in the system.
NetInfoD will no longer be running.
And to access a local database,
there's no longer an IPC required
to talk to the database.
This is a huge win in complexity,
reduces footprint, and makes the system
more reliable overall.
All local NetInfo data.
So if you have an
existing NetInfo database,
we will of course migrate all of
the data out of the local NetInfo
database and into the new database.
Network NetInfo will not
be supported in Leopard.
LDAP, Active Directory, and NIST,
we think, cover the network directory
access needs pretty well.
So if you need a network
directory system,
you can pick any one of these threes.
We highly recommend
LDAP and Open Directory.
NetInfo Manager and all the
NetInfo tools will be removed
from NetInfo or from Leopard.
There are several scripts that
we've developed internally at Apple,
and I'm sure you as well have used
Nickel or some other NetInfo tools.
Now is a really good time to migrate
those scripts onto the DS tools.
The DS tools have been present in
the system since Jaguar with them
getting more tools in every build,
so there's really nothing
preventing you from going ahead
and moving away from Nickel,
for example, if you're using that.
In Tiger, you can do that today and
use DSCL instead of Nickel.
The change is transparent to
99% of the system software.
Because we have so many
abstraction layers,
login window doesn't even know that
there's not a local NetInfo database,
nor should it.
So what tools should I use instead of
the NI tools that I've used historically?
So legacy tools, Nickel,
you can use DSCL.
That's been there since 10.3.
NI Load, you can use DS Import,
which has been there since Jaguar.
NI Dump, you can use DS Export,
which is new in Leopard.
There's a man page.
NetInfo Manager.
Who has Leopard installed?
Again, if you right click on a user
account in System Accounts Press,
you can now edit the user record for UID,
Home Directory, Path, and other things.
I have a screenshot of that later.
If you need to edit groups
on the local system,
you can use DS Edit Group,
which has been there since Tiger.
If you need to edit mount records,
the new directory utility has a
mount record editor for adding
local mounts to access Linux,
NFS servers, or otherwise.
And if you need to enable root,
there's always been
the command line tool,
DS Enable Root,
or you can go to directory
utility under the edit menu,
and there's an Enable Root
command there as well.
So we think we've covered most of the
legacy usage of any NI-based tools,
and so you should get off of
those tools as soon as possible.
Except for DS Export,
all of these tools are in Tiger.
So you can move your scripts,
your internal deployments,
anything that you've already
got can already be moved to
these new replacements today
without waiting for Leopard,
and then you're prepared for the future.
So, account system preferences.
If you right-click on a user record
in account system preference,
we get this nifty pop-up
called Advanced Options.
The HI people wouldn't let
us have an actual button,
so it has to be hidden.
So you right-click on the user
record and this sheet pops down.
And you can edit all the things
most people needed to launch
NetInfoManager to edit previously.
So you can edit the UID,
you can edit the group ID,
you can edit the record name,
you can edit the login shell.
You know,
anything that you typically would have
had to have launched NetInfoManager to do
in the past can now be done directly from
within the system accounts preference.
There's even some nifty support for this.
If you're home directory,
if you hit Choose on the home directory,
you can actually point it at an
encrypted file vault and reset your
user record up to point to a file vault.
Director Utility is,
we renamed it Utility because it
no longer just manages access,
it also now has some utility functions.
Under the Edit menu, we have Enable Root.
And if you look carefully in the toolbar,
you'll see an icon there called Mounts.
That's so you can add and remove
mount records to the local database.
For those of you who
know anything about NFS,
there has to be a mount record for
Mac OS X to recognize an NFS server.
And previously,
the only way to teach Mac OS X about
a mount record was to put it in
LDAP or use NetInfoManager to put
it in the local NetInfo database.
NetInfoManager's gone.
How do I add mount records?
Well, we put an HI in
Directory Utility for you.
So now I can complete the timeline.
So now we've got what Jaguar looked like,
what Panther looked like,
what Tiger looked like,
and the new functionality
for Leopard is DSLocal.
We'll be talking about
Active Directory with packet signing,
and we have some new
administration tools.
What's important about this
slide is not what's new,
but what's missing.
LookupD is gone, MemberD is gone,
NetInfo is gone between
Tiger and Leopard.
So this is your future.
This is the way Leopard is going to ship.
If you have any questions
or anything like that,
we'll be happy to answer them
at the end of the presentation.
So architectural summary.
Directory services, lookupd,
memberd are merging.
This simplifies the system,
reduces daemon count.
There's all sorts of
goodness coming out of this.
Netinfo is no longer supported.
I hope you get that message.
Netinfo is not supported.
It is still in the build.
We had some engineering difficulties.
And for risk management,
it's not in the build.
So please, please,
please don't take the fact
that your Leopard preview still
works with Netinfo to be a
contradiction of this presentation.
This presentation's the truth.
What you have is a pre-release.
We've also removed Bonjour, SLP, SMB,
and the Apple Talk plug-ins.
This functionality is going to be picked
up with a direct browser in the finder,
and that's all I can say
about that at this time.
Leopard Directory server.
So for Leopard,
we're very excited about the changes
we've made to Open Directory.
The directory services
architecture in Tiger is leaner,
or in Leopard, is leaner, meaner,
and faster than it's ever been.
And we hope to get a lot
better mobility support,
more reliability,
and to make your administrative
lives easier by getting rid of
one outdated networking protocol.
So if you're using the
NetInfo command line tools,
you've got to get off
of those right away.
We don't see any reason that you
couldn't do that today in Tiger.
And for the things that are missing,
we've added those in Leopard.
If you have any software
that calls the NetInfo APIs,
well,
those have been deprecated since 10.2.
So if you didn't get the message when
there were compiler errors in Xcode,
now's a really good time to
stop using the NetInfo APIs.
And if you have any internal
scripts that use Nickel,
move them to DSCL.
So what are we doing
for Active Directory?
Well, this is another exciting plugin.
We introduced that in Panther,
and we've provided some
enhancements in Tiger.
Namely, we added support to the
Active Directory plugin
to support MemberD,
so we could get nested groups
out of Active Directory.
But we weren't done
with Active Directory,
and I think we're going to catch
up and make a lot of you happy
with the Leopard feature set
in the Active Directory plugin.
So Active Directory is a
very popular configuration.
Surprisingly, it's used by about 40%
of our customer sites.
And so for Leopard, we're improving the
replica and site support.
There's been some feedback that we
don't always pick the same replica
as a Windows machine would have,
so we're going to improve that and try
to behave more like a Windows client
would in a similar situation.
And we're going to
support packet signing.
For those of you who don't know,
there is a lockdown mode that you can
deploy Active Directory to require
full packet signing that every
transaction with AD is authenticated
and authorized and signed.
We haven't supported that,
and if you attend the SMB session,
which is going to be
in the next few weeks,
we're going to be able to do that.
So if you're watching this
video and you're not sure what's
going on right now next to me,
you will find out that we're adding
packet signing to the SMB file protocol.
So now that we have
it in the file client,
it makes sense to add it to
the Active Directory client,
so we're supporting packet signing in
Leopard with the Active Directory plugin.
So this will make, we hope this will make
Mac OS X a first class citizen of
Active Directory networks and will
support all the security options that
you can set up on Active Directory.
Currently to allow Mac OS X machine
to join your network,
you've had to lower some
of the security settings on
Active Directory and nobody likes that,
so we're fixing that.
Server improvements.
We're doing a lot of work
on the server for Leopard.
Directory services is a never-ending
well of work for me and my team.
My management doesn't like that.
I do.
It's kind of job security,
but we are putting some attention
into the server for this release.
So, first thing we're doing is
upgrading to OpenLDAP 2.3.x.
I say .x because I don't know
what version OpenLDAP is going
to be at in spring of 2007,
but it will be the latest version that
we can reasonably ship and qualify.
We're merging all of
Apple's diffs to overlays.
This should make it far easier for those
of you who want to download a later
version of OpenLDAP and still get all
of Apple's diffs applied for updating.
We received some feedback.
While we've posted all
of our source changes,
prior to OpenLDAP 2.2,
there was no way to add plug-ins
or overlays to OpenLDAP without
invading the source,
and some of our changes were
somewhat source invasive.
We received feedback from customers
in the OpenLDAP community that we
can now use the overlay technology
to deploy a lot of the data.
Like the directory-based schema
can be done as an overlay.
So, we're moving all of our
changes to an overlay,
which means you can download a
baseline OpenLDAP and just add Apple's
overlays without changing the source
code or doing a source code merge.
So, this will make it easier for you to
keep up to date with a newer version of
OpenLDAP and make it easier for us to
keep up to date with a newer OpenLDAP.
Those of you who have attended the
calendar or Teams presentation,
what do you think of that technology?
Is it good stuff?
Thank you.
I'm very excited about it.
The directory services team has been
involved in a lot of the planning,
and that doesn't come for free without
some directory services changes.
So there's a number of changes
coming in Open Directory to
support Teams and to support the
calendar and the Teams directory.
Some of these changes are schema
and access control improvements
and granular access controls.
There will now be choices other than
directory administrator and nobody.
You'll be able to have granular
settings in the directory system.
We're also introducing
replication scale improvement.
For those of you who know
about our current design,
it's a hub-and-spoke model.
You've got the master at the center
and you line up replicas around it,
and they all beat on the master to try to
get as much data as they can out of it.
Well, we all know that doesn't scale,
and we're going to address that.
So the new design we're
calling cascading replication,
and this will allow us to have
32 replicas of a master and
32 replicas of each replica.
By my math, 32 times 32 is 1024,
and so that will allow 1,025 replicas
in a two-tier hierarchy to be deployed.
We think this is a
substantial scale improvement.
It allows you to guide
your network topologies,
look for it, plan for it,
because for those of you who currently
have more than 32 replicas deployed,
you're going to have to restructure those
into a tree or a cascading architecture.
But this should allow us to deploy many,
many more directory servers
than we've previously been
able to effectively support.
The next feature I'm very excited
about is airport base station support.
How many of you have wireless networks?
How many of you would like
to be able to use your
Open Directory name and passwords
to access those wireless networks?
The Leopard server that you have
in your hands can do that today.
We support Radius,
and so does the airport base station.
So Mac OS X server has a Radius
server included with it now,
and you can configure
free Radius on Mac OS X,
and we did a very, very simple thing.
We took free Radius and
we wrote a plug-in for it,
and every time it receives
a name and password,
it forwards it to Open Directory.
Once Open Directory has
verified the password,
free Radius tells the base
station to let the user log in.
Nothing more than that,
nothing less than that.
So we have full airport
base station support.
The Radius server can handle
multiple base stations.
We're currently living on it at work.
We have three base stations joined to it.
We're doing some scale testing.
It should easily handle 50 to 100 base
stations on a single Radius server.
This allows users to authenticate
on your wireless network with their
Open Directory name and password.
This uses WAP2 Enterprise Authentication
802.1 uppercase X,
please, because lowercase x.
It's a little different standard.
And so we use WAP2 and
802.1x authentication,
and the Airport Express and
Airport Extreme already
support this standard.
There are no firmware upgrades
required at the airport.
It just works.
The RADIUS server is based on
Free RADIUS and all of our modifications
will be posted to the Darwin website,
if they haven't been already.
I'm not sure what the... Steve,
have we posted our mods on Darwin yet?
No.
So in summary,
Open Directory is Mac OS X's
configuration infrastructure.
We support both local and remote
management of common system
configuration information.
We have an architectural
overhaul coming for Leopard,
major changes in the local
directory infrastructure.
Local and network net info
will no longer be supported.
We're improving the
Active Directory plugin.
And we have several enhancements
for the Open Directory server.
We have team services support.
These are mostly boiled down to
schema and access control changes.
We're moving to a new version of
OpenLDAP along with the migration
of our diffs to overlays instead of
straight diffs to the baseline source.
We're improving replication
scale and we support airport base
stations via free RADIUS integration
for this particular release.
Again, I encourage you to play with
the RADIUS server that you
have in your Leopard preview.
It has access control support.
You can control who can access which
base station and so on and so forth.
It's a fantastic product.
We're very excited about it.
For more information,
you can contact Skip Levens.
He's the technology evangelist,
and there is documentation and
sample code at the standard websites.